source/boards_resources.md, before:

# Boards resources

## ZCU102

### Documentaion

* [Architecture Libraries Guide](https://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation/sw_manuals/xilinx2019_2/ug974-vivado-ultrascale-libraries.pdf)

* [User Guide](https://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation/boards_and_kits/zcu102/ug1182-zcu102-eval-bd.pdf)

* [Creating and packaging IP](https://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation/sw_manuals/xilinx2018_1/ug1118-vivado-creating-packaging-custom-ip.pdf)

* [Embedded processor design](https://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation/sw_manuals/xilinx2019_1/ug940-vivado-tutorial-embedded-design.pdf)

### Constraint file

* [ZCU102 xdc](https://www.xilinx.com/member/forms/download/design-license.html?cid=473474&filename=zcu102-xdc-rdf0405.zip)

### Axi Lite

* [Generic Axi Lite module wrapper](https://github.com/Ceramic-Blue-Tim/Resources/blob/main/zynq/hdl/generic_axilite_wrapper.vhd)

### USB3.0

WIP

## Zybo Z7

### Documentation

* [User Guide](https://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation/user_guides/ug585-Zynq-7000-TRM.pdf)

### Constraint file

* [Zybo Z7 xdc](https://github.com/Digilent/digilent-xdc/blob/master/Zybo-Z7-Master.xdc)

## Genesys 2

### Constraint file

* [Genesys2 xdc](https://github.com/Digilent/digilent-xdc/blob/master/Genesys-2-Master.xdc)

## CMOD A7

### Constraint file

* [CMOD A7 xdc](https://github.com/Digilent/digilent-xdc/blob/master/Cmod-A7-Master.xdc)

Commit message:

Add the complete guide to vhdl synthesis

source/boards_resources.md, after:

# Boards resources

[Almost complete guide of vhdl design with vivado](https://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation/sw_manuals/xilinx2018_3/ug901-vivado-synthesis.pdf)

## ZCU102

### Documentaion

* [Architecture Libraries Guide](https://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation/sw_manuals/xilinx2019_2/ug974-vivado-ultrascale-libraries.pdf)

* [User Guide](https://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation/boards_and_kits/zcu102/ug1182-zcu102-eval-bd.pdf)

* [Creating and packaging IP](https://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation/sw_manuals/xilinx2018_1/ug1118-vivado-creating-packaging-custom-ip.pdf)

* [Embedded processor design](https://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation/sw_manuals/xilinx2019_1/ug940-vivado-tutorial-embedded-design.pdf)

### Constraint file

* [ZCU102 xdc](https://www.xilinx.com/member/forms/download/design-license.html?cid=473474&filename=zcu102-xdc-rdf0405.zip)

### Axi Lite

* [Generic Axi Lite module wrapper](https://github.com/Ceramic-Blue-Tim/Resources/blob/main/zynq/hdl/generic_axilite_wrapper.vhd)

### USB3.0

WIP

## Zybo Z7

### Documentation

* [User Guide](https://www.xilinx.com/support/documentation/user_guides/ug585-Zynq-7000-TRM.pdf)

### Constraint file

* [Zybo Z7 xdc](https://github.com/Digilent/digilent-xdc/blob/master/Zybo-Z7-Master.xdc)

## Genesys 2

### Constraint file

* [Genesys2 xdc](https://github.com/Digilent/digilent-xdc/blob/master/Genesys-2-Master.xdc)

## CMOD A7

### Constraint file

* [CMOD A7 xdc](https://github.com/Digilent/digilent-xdc/blob/master/Cmod-A7-Master.xdc)
